>> LISA GARR: Hi.
I'm Lisa Garr, host of
"Gaiam Inspirations,"
and welcome to our beautiful
Los Angeles studio.
Have you ever wondered why
walnuts look like a brain?
Or why do carrots, if you cut
them into little tiny circles,
look like an eye or
kidney beans look
like a kidney or even
tomatoes, if you cut them open,
look like the four
quadrants of the heart?
Why do you think nature
left us these amazing clues?
Today we're going to
bring this whole food
wisdom from ancient
cultures to you.
And joining me is health
educator/evangelist Don Tolman,
who had been known
as the Indiana
Jones of food and fasting.
He's an absolute
fountain of information.
Thank you for being here.
>> DON TOLMAN: Thank you, Lisa.
It's my pleasure.
>> LISA: So we're sitting here
in front of this beautiful food
because we're going to go
through different systems
in the body and which foods
relate to different systems
in the body.
How did you discover this?
How did you put together
all of this information?
>> TOLMAN: Just as a young kid
I heard a story about an ancient
meal that ancient cultures
thought was sacred and precious
to the human body, but no
one knew what the meal was.
They just gave it different
names, like pulse or zeorghim.
Pythagoras called it
the Meal of Hercules.
No one really knew what it
was, and that set me on fire.
So I spent 17 years
of my adult life,
well, when I was young
going into adulthood,
jumping on trains, working on
freight liners on the oceans.
I went to all seven continents.
I went into ancient collections
that today are mostly
under lock and key and lived
amongst 17 different indigenous
cultures just asking about all
of these plants and things that
could've been this meal.
And I just came
across so much wisdom
from these different cultures.
And they all kind of
felt the exact same way
about health and
longevity, and they
had principles of
understanding geometries
in the form of plants.
And it was called a
law of similarities,
that a thing like
unto itself is drawn.
And so even though
you can eat a tomato
and now today's studies show
it's good for your heart,
they taught that for
thousands of years.
Because they felt the tomato
is red, it has four chambers,
and it's good for the heart.
A tomato is good for all
the systems of the body,
but it targets the
heart specifically.
>> LISA: So that food that
you're talking about called
pulse, what was in it?
And you sell that food, right?
You created a package of
it currently, didn't you?
I remember that.
>> TOLMAN: After 17 years of
looking for it, I finally quit.
No one had it.
I'd gone to the Meyers
Collection, British Museum,
all through Europe to different
continents, Japan, Asia, China,
everywhere.
No one knew.
Two years after I
quit, I accidentally
stumbled on it by
a billionaire who
owns one of the world's
largest collections
of ancient and arcane
artifacts in Washington, DC,
just south of Towson.
And I accidentally found it.
So we started making
it as a family
and giving it to friends.
They went wild.
>> LISA: Yes.
>> TOLMAN: And so then,
OK, we'll make it available
to people, so that's
what we've done.
>> LISA: It is one of the most
whole and complete combinations
of foods, containing essential
fatty acids, vitamins,
proteins.
>> TOLMAN: Everything, yeah.
>> LISA: I bought it, fed
it to my baby for a while.
>> TOLMAN: Oh, that's so cool.
That's beautiful.
>> LISA: I remember that as
you were talking about it.
>> TOLMAN: That is awesome.
>> LISA: So these foods here,
we're going to learn about how
they relate to different
systems in the body.
And I noticed, OK, so seven
systems in the body, right?
>> TOLMAN: Yeah.
>> LISA: Brain,
skeletal, endocrine.
We're going to go
through all of them.
>> TOLMAN: Som medical groups
break it out into nine.
>> LISA: OK.
>> TOLMAN: But anciently,
they taught there were seven,
like the seven
continents of the Earth.
That we're 70% water.
The Earth is 70% water.
They felt we were a
microcosm of the Earth.
>> LISA: It's a magical number.
>> TOLMAN: And so they
had seven systems.
>> LISA: OK.
>> TOLMAN: Yeah.
>> LISA: And I noticed the apple
is pretty much in almost every
system.
>> TOLMAN: It is.
>> LISA: It is.
>> LISA: Why is that?
>> TOLMAN: Anciently,
they taught literally--
and they tested this, all of
it, over time and distance
in the human experience
with consistent result.
That's the kind of studies
that I have an interest in.
I have no interest
in laboratory studies
to gain empirical
evidence that has
been peer-reviewed and typically
bought and paid for up front
by different groups to get the
result they're looking for.
>> LISA: Different interests.
>> TOLMAN: And what they found
out over time and distance is
that the apple is one food that
targets what they call the five
aspects of the human experience.
You can cut an
apple, and you see
a perfect five-pointed star.
>> LISA: Oh, I never
saw that before.
>> TOLMAN: And it's interesting,
you stand up and spread
your arms and legs out, you
stand in a five-pointed star.
And so they had names for
each of the human aspects.
Eventually, it made it into
the Greco-Roman period,
and so they called it in
that language Citius, Altius,
Fortius, Socius Moneta.
Citius meant swifter mentally.
Altius meant higher emotionally.
Fortius meant
stronger physically.
And they believed
that what gives you
legs to stand on and
walk through your life
and to fulfill yourself
is Socius, Moneta--
>> LISA: Let me see this.
>> TOLMAN: --trust
and relationships.
>> LISA: Can you see that,
the five-pointed star?
That wonderful.
And that's why this is
almost a part of the apple.
>> TOLMAN: It is.
And that's why
they said an apple
a day will keep the doctor away.
And of course
pharmaceutical medicines
today laugh at it
and poke fun of it.
And oh, it's because
apples don't work.
That's why we're here.
And it's nonsense.
We've lost the truth.
>> LISA: Around apples.
OK.
So it's said that the walnut
is in the shape of a brain,
and you called that
to my attention.
We have a slide here of
what the walnut looks like
and how it's encased
in the shell.
Why is it said to be
good for the brain?
>> TOLMAN: It's interesting,
because the walnut, the shell,
is just like the cranial cap.
You break it open,
the walnut looks
like it has a left
and right hemisphere,
the upper cerebrums,
lower cerebellums.
It has a convoluted juridic
folds, the wrinkles right
on there, just
like the neocortex.
And because it seems
they really work
for the brain, what
they've found out
is that all of the
Omega-3's, 6's,
9's in the oils itself
goes into the brain,
crosses the blood/brain
barrier, and helps to break down
lipofuscin plaque, which leads
to memory loss and memory fog
and loss of cognitive function.
And now they know
that walnuts really
are brain food, just like they
taught in the ancient worlds.
>> LISA: So that's the purpose
of those omegas is that it
makes the kind of fat soluble
and breaks up the plaque
in the brain.
>> TOLMAN: It does.
>> LISA: Brilliant.
Same with the almond?
>> TOLMAN: Yeah.
It's interesting, because the
almond is part of the brain.
They named part of the
brain that looks exactly
like almonds the amygdala,
which is Latin for almond.
And now they know that
nutritional components
of the almond is
used by the cells
to convert it into
the neurochemistry
of emotional processes.
It's brilliant.
>> LISA: So amygdala and
almond mean the same thing.
That's not an accident.
OK.
What about the carrots?
We talked earlier
about how the carrots
have a similarity-- we
also have a slide of this,
if you can't see this here--
of what the eye looks like.
>> TOLMAN: It does.
You look at a carrot, and
you look at the whole thing,
and you break it or cut
it, just like you did,
and you see what looks
like a pupil with an iris
and radiating lines.
And a lot of people never really
even look into the history.
Why do they call it the
pupil, which means student?
And why do they call it the
iris, which means rainbow?
And so you get into
this whole thing,
and it looks like
the optic nerves that
go across the ocular
chiasma and go
into the visual cortex
and the dendritic branch
of that part of the brain.
>> LISA: You didn't
make this up?
>> TOLMAN: No.
I wish I would've.
>> LISA: That's really creative.
>> TOLMAN: But it's fabulous,
because now they know--
and they tested this
in the modern world--
one medium-sized carrot every
single day for seven days
increases blood supply
to the eyes by 25%.
People can restore their
vision with little simple eye
exercises they taught anciently
and eating enough carrots
every day.
They can get rid of contacts
and lenses, if they want to.
>> LISA: And is that the
beta carotene that increases
the circulation?
Is that what it is?
>> TOLMAN: That's one thing.
But another thing that
carrots have is the fibers.
There's over 500 carotenoids
that they have identified.
Beta carotene is one of them.
But the fibers themselves
contain those components,
and they actually clear
the drainage canals
from the lens of the
eye that get blocked
and lead to cataracts
and blurry vision.
And it also targets
the drainage canal
at the back of the
eye, which causes
glaucoma when it's blocked.
And carrots clear it all out.
>> LISA: Well, that
makes more sense.
So now I can understand
why eating a carrot a day
would make a big difference.
>> TOLMAN: It would.
>> LISA: Well, there's the
recipe that goes along with
every single one of
these food systems,
and it's in Don's book, "The
Whole Food Medicine Guide."
And this is volume three now.
The other volumes were huge.
>> TOLMAN: 12 pounds.
>> LISA: 12 pounds, Yeah.
And in these books are
these beautiful photos
of how each one of these
relates to the systems,
and we put it together
for you as well.
But there's a detox.
There's a little
recipe that goes along
with each one of the food
systems for the brain
pulling heavy metals
out of the brain.
You put together
an aluminum detox.
>> TOLMAN: Absolutely.
>> LISA: And in that, let's see,
we've got two cups of grapes,
one cut apple, and one
cup of strawberries.
We have this for you
guys on the screen here.
Why the fruits?
What is it, something about
the acids in the fruits?
>> TOLMAN: It's so fascinating,
because the fruits themselves,
all fruits, they
understand today,
just as it was taught anciently,
their number one target is
function of the brain.
Because the functional
capacity of your brain is what
determines all the other
aspects and physiologies
and anatomy of the body.
And so when you
have strawberries
that target the
heart and the blood
and apples that target
the entire body systems
and you throw in the grapes and
cells and things of the blood,
it goes through, and
the particles of apples
go across the
blood/brain barrier
and swell up like little
sponges and absorb heavy metals,
especially in the basal
ganglia of the brain,
like aluminum and
lead and mercury,
which can lead to autism
and all kinds of things.
>> LISA: Parkinson's.
>> TOLMAN: And so that helps
to get rid of all of that.
>> LISA: And so I read in
your book it's the malic acid
in these citrus fruits that
the aluminum binds to and then
wicks out of the system.
Another brilliant thing-- OK.
So now we're on to the
respiratory system.
So these items here are good
for the respiratory system.
We've got honey.
Why honey?
>> TOLMAN: Honey is brilliant,
just simply because nothing can
live in honey.
Honey won't grow mold.
It never goes bad.
The only thing that can happen
to honey is it can dry out.
>> TOLMAN: Right.
>> TOLMAN: So you add
water, stir it all up,
you've got honey again.
And so bacteria, viruses,
molds are done away
with when you have
honey in your diet.
And a lot of people say,
oh, it's just bee puke.
They eat flowers,
and they puke it out.
You don't want-- slow down,
go back to ancient wisdom,
and quit reading
every little editorial
that somebody's paid for
to write to make money.
>> LISA: Is there something in
the honey that's specifically
good for the lungs?
>> TOLMAN: It's interesting,
because it is literally from
thousands of
blossoms of flowers.
>> LISA: Right.
>> TOLMAN: And so it's
bringing pollens and all kinds
of nutritional components that
they haven't even been able
to name all of it yet.
And the lungs are so
affected by the air
and the pollens and
different things
that when you take that in in
that form it goes to the lungs
and protects the lungs
themselves, the bronchioles
and everything so that you
don't have those problems.
>> LISA: It works as a natural
antihistamine if you take it
from the local area
that you live in.
>> TOLMAN: It really is.
>> LISA: Fascinating.
What about the artichoke?
Why is that good for the lungs?
>> TOLMAN: It's interesting,
because a lot of times people
will start to cough and hack
and feel like they're choking,
arti-choke.
>> LISA: Oh.
>> TOLMAN: And you can go back
into the history of this thing,
which I know we don't
have full time for here--
>> LISA: Well, go ahead.
Tell me a little bit about it.
>> TOLMAN: The arterial flow and
the blood flow into the lungs
sometimes constrict.
>> LISA: OK.
>> TOLMAN: And so it's not
getting the full blood/gas,
you know, enhancement that
it needs and dissipating
and getting rid of
gases that are spent.
And the artichoke has whatever
the nutritional components
are to be able to break all of
that up and to clear the lung.
>> LISA: Does it having anything
to do with also the heart
that's inside it?
>> TOLMAN: I think
absolutely so.
I think that the
artichoke heart gets
to the heart of the problem
that the lungs sometimes suffer.
>> LISA: That would make sense.
And now red potatoes.
You're a big fan of red potatoes
and the whole potato too.
>> TOLMAN: I am.
>> LISA: Skin too.
>> TOLMAN: And the
reason that I am,
it actually has a signature
pattern of the lung.
And you slice them up into
little cookie-like things,
you squeeze lemon juice on it,
put some good nature-made salt,
and you eat them uncooked,
and they target the lungs.
And we've had six people in
Western Australia whose lungs
were filled with asbestos and
some of them from other things
from the mining
industry, told they
were going to have
to get on iron lungs,
do all this kind of stuff.
They instead put it
off, went with large red
skinned potatoes, the
lemon juice and salt.
Within three to four months,
every single one of them
it was all cleared and
out of their bodies,
and they're just fine.
>> LISA: You're kidding.
How many times a day
do you suggest that?
>> TOLMAN: It is brilliant.
If you have a red skin potato
about the size of the fist,
that's all you need each day.
>> LISA: Oh, just
one full potato,
and you eat slices of that.
>> TOLMAN: And you're targeting
the cleansing of the lung.
>> LISA: That is fascinating.
We actually have that
recipe for you guys
as well, "1 Potato, 2
Potato, 3 Potato, 4."
That is great, because
the recent cold and flu
season has brought on so many
respiratory issues and lung
problems.
>> TOLMAN: Yeah.
>> LISA: So that can actually
get rid of pus in the lungs.
>> TOLMAN: Absolutely.
It does.
It works.
And we've had hundreds and
hundreds of people try it,
and they're blown away.
>> LISA: Now what
about rosemary?
Why is rosemary good
for-- I love this.
If you can see this, this
particular piece of rosemary,
which is from my garden,
is in the shape of a heart.
It just happened
to be like that.
>> TOLMAN: Just picked that way.
>> LISA: My daughter picked it.
>> TOLMAN: Wow.
>> LISA: I know.
Isn't that neat?
So why is rosemary
good for the lungs?
>> TOLMAN: It's fascinating.
Take that and just crush
the needles and smell.
>> LISA: I know.
>> TOLMAN: Isn't that something?
>> LISA: It smells like pizza.
>> TOLMAN: There you go.
No, it's so fascinating.
That effluvial molecule
that is part of the essence
and the oils of that rosemary
again helps to clear the lungs.
It's just like when
people breathe peppermint.
Boy, they can feel
it just hit the brain
and go to the lungs
and everything.
Rosemary has a
concentration of components
that will clear the
lungs and actually goes
and targets the process
of memory in the brain.
And that's the things
that they've studied,
that the lungs and the brain
are directly connected.
That's why you can stop
and hold your breath,
but you can think,
OK, don't breathe.
And you can only go so
long, and then your brain
says, you better breathe.
>> LISA: Right.
Right.
>> TOLMAN: But rosemary targets
the brain and the lungs.
Brilliant stuff.
>> LISA: It is.
And especially the oils
of it, oils of rosemary,
oils of peppermint, and
all that you talk about,
these beautiful oils
in these leaves.
All right.
So we could sprinkle the
rosemary on the potatoes
also with the sea salt, and
that would be pretty good too.
>> TOLMAN: Oh, yeah.
Absolutely.
>> LISA: The next system we're
talking about is the heart.
Now the beet.
Let's start off with the beet.
Why is the beet
good for the heart?
>> TOLMAN: A lot of people don't
even realize why we call it
the beet.
It's because you
have a heartbeat.
And it's in the
shape of the heart,
and it targets the rhythmatic
function of the heart itself.
It actually helps to
overcome arrhythmias,
all kinds of mess-ups in
the function of rhythm
of the heartbeat.
You look at this thing, you
start to look at the leaves,
it looks like it's arteries
filled with blood that goes off
into veins, capillaries,
the whole thing.
This plant right here,
including the greens,
is one of the best
heart blood foods
that you can ever
have in your diet.
>> LISA: Why?
>> TOLMAN: The components
in this thin the blood.
So if you have high
blood pressure,
it helps to drop that pressure.
>> LISA: Thins the blood.
>> TOLMAN: It gets rid of plaque
and fats and crap that get
into the bloodstream, if you
live in a developed country
with processed foods.
It targets nutritionally
the blood cells themselves.
It has a perfect balance
of iron and magnesium
and all the other things
that people want to name.
But there again,
they know there's
a little over 11,000
nutritional components in this.
>> LISA: Why do you think it
has such a high sugar content?
Beet sugar is great for
sweetening things, making
cake red, if you want.
Yeah.
>> TOLMAN: Yeah.
And this kind of sugar
is large molecules
of sugar, which is what
the brain works on,
the adrenals work.
And the pancreas uses that
sugar to produce glucagon
that is stored in
the adrenals that
is turned into adrenalin
for body function.
>> LISA: Oh, interesting.
So beet sugar is
actually good for us.
>> TOLMAN: It absolutely is.
>> LISA: Interesting.
And I've also noticed
that the red beets,
if you eat a lot of red
beets, that they come out
in the eliminatory
systems as well.
So they're are very,
very pure food.
No food dye here.
>> TOLMAN: They are.
>> LISA: All right.
So also for the heart is
you recommend grapefruits.
And why grapefruits?
>> TOLMAN: Well, they tested
this for me at Cornell Medical.
>> LISA: From our
neighbor's tree.
>> TOLMAN: This is beautiful.
If you have clogged arteries
or are concerned about it--
we have had patients scheduled
for triple and quadruple bypass
surgery to get rid of
their blocked arteries.
Instead, they put the surgery
off, they stop all medications,
if they have enough
courage and will,
and they eat three of
these every morning.
Every single one of the
patients that have been tested
have absolutely clear
arteries within anywhere
from 45 days to
90 days, and they
don't need surgery whatsoever.
It's the acid in here that
breaks up plaque in the body.
>> LISA: So is that why the
famous grapefruit diet was
so popular, because the acid
actually breaks up fat as well?
>> TOLMAN: And it's interesting.
It does.
And what happens is you can put
grapefruit juice in the jar,
dump in a half a cup of, say,
virgin olive oil, shake it up,
and it stays in solution.
Oil floats to the
top in every liquid,
but it will stay in solution.
>> LISA: Seriously?
>> TOLMAN: And it
breaks up fats.
That's what it does.
>> LISA: That is great to know.
All right.
And then also we talked earlier
about the heart, the tomato.
And we have actually
a picture here
of how tomato when you
cut it-- and I'm not
going to cut it
here, because it's
going to go all over the
place-- looks like-- that's
why we have the picture-- the
four quadrants of the heart.
>> TOLMAN: It does.
>> LISA: No mystery there.
>> TOLMAN: No, none.
And it's so interesting,
because they've
known tomatoes were heart
fooDs for thousands of years.
And even the American
Heart Association's website
openly admits tomatoes
are heart food.
And they say that the
number one component that's
so good for the heart
is that it has lycopene.
That's just a Latin
word that means red.
But it sure sounds
like they're experts.
>> LISA: Oh, yeah.
Well, now they powder lycopene,
and they put it in supplements.
>> TOLMAN: But eat
the tomato instead.
You don't need to get lycopene
or red stuff in a capsule.
Just eat the tomato.
>> LISA: Eat the tomato.
Well, what about tomatoes being
a part of the nightshade family
and it carrying
the funguses and--
>> TOLMAN: Oh, yeah.
Every writer out there
is bought and paid for
to write nasty stuff
about every whole food,
and instead you should
be on this medication
or this supplement
pill or this capsule.
It's all so much better.
This is deadly and dangerous.
And yet I have fed
tomatoes to a one-year-old,
and they absolutely loved
it, my own children,
and they're still alive
today and functioning.
I don't know of
anybody that died
from the nightshade of a tomato.
>> LISA: Well, individual
bodies might be different.
But to each his own.
OK.
Spinach.
Spinach also great
for the heart.
Spinach has got a lot
of great things for it.
I notice it's in a lot of the
different systems' food lists.
>> TOLMAN: Oh, yeah.
Totally.
In fact, as you
look at these things
and just take a look at the
patterns of arteries and veins,
and then you start getting
into the power of these things,
there again it's going right to
the power of the heart muscle
and targeting that blood
supply into all of the muscles
and moving through the body.
>> LISA: Now are you OK
with breaking these down,
juicing them?
Or are they better eaten
whole in your opinion?
>> TOLMAN: In the ancient
world, the healers,
not the pharmakeia, which
means poison-makers--
there's always been two
groups, all the way back
to the earliest
dynasties of Egypt.
There were the poison-makers
and the healers.
And it's interesting,
because the healers knew
when it comes to health
and healing and longevity
and even when you're
sick or injured,
there are three ways to heal
and bring yourself back.
There is fast,
faster, and fastest.
The fast path-- and fast
means to strengthen.
Lot of people think it
means to starve to death.
But it means to
strengthen, to hold fast,
to hold firm and strong-- a
fast way to return to health
is to simply eat it and chew it.
A faster way is to
juice it and leave
the fibers and
things in the juice.
And the fastest is
to remove the fibers
and go with the aqueous or
the aquarian, the liquid part.
>> LISA: Just the juice.
>> TOLMAN: That's
the fastest healing.
>> LISA: OK.
>> TOLMAN: So faster
is with the fibers.
Fast is simply eat it.
>> LISA: OK.
But cooking it I noticed was
not in your formula there.
>> TOLMAN: Right.
>> LISA: So mostly raw.
>> TOLMAN: Yeah.
And there again I think
it's very, very important
that people understand where the
word raw originally came from.
I agree with a Ra
diet spelled R-A,
not R-A-W. R-A-W came in the
late 1600s and into the 1700s.
And raw, R-A-W, was simply
the reverse spelling of war.
Getting rid of chaos and a
house divided against itself
was to eat an uncooked
diet for recovery.
The original Ra diet,
R-A, which the healers
embraced, and then an
uncooked for recovery periods,
the Ra was the
spelling of the sun.
A lot of cultures
called that Ra.
>> LISA: Right.
>> TOLMAN: And so it meant to
eat foods in the season that
they come forward in the
temperate zone where you live.
And so certain foods like
berries and asparagus
and things come
up in the spring,
and then it shifts over
to things like melons.
The water content just goes
right through the roof.
Melons have around
90% to 93% water.
The brain is 90% to 93% water.
So you thump the old melon,
and that's what they knew.
They knew melons
targeted brain function.
And so then you
go into the fall.
It was called the
fall, or autumn,
but fall because the water
content was going down.
And so as it's going
down, there are even
some fruits like apples and
things that you could cook,
and it would not create
war or chaos in the body.
And then the beans and legumes,
the hard squash, the pumpkins,
the tubers from under the
ground, like garlic and onions,
you could cook those
or eat them uncooked,
but it would not create
chaos or war in the body.
>> LISA: Interesting.
Now wasn't food
originally called
medicine, certain
foods as medicine?
That's the name of your
book, "Whole Food Medicines."
>> TOLMAN: All of the foods
were nature's medicines designed
for human beings.
And they took the
most precious foods
that they had tested over time
and distance in every culture.
And when visitors would
come in boats and things,
they would take the
seeds and gift it to them
to take to their country so
they would have that medicine.
And so the most common
foods are the most precious
and profound of foods.
And they get bashed
all the time.
You should only
have a superfood.
That stuff makes me sick.
These common foods were
based on common sense that
were commonly good
for the people.
And it created the commonwealth
of those societies,
because they
believed the greatest
wealth was your health.
And that's where
all that came from.
>> LISA: So when foods were
traded for the benefits
of spices and so forth, it
was for people's health,
and that's why they had
certain value levels.
Interesting.
All right.
So back to the systems, this
is the endocrine system.
And these are foods that are
good for the endocrine system.
Tell me why.
Ah, I learned something
about mushrooms.
I did not know they were
very high in iodine.
>> TOLMAN: They are the highest
concentration of iodine of any
plant on the face of the Earth,
even more so than sea kelp.
>> LISA: And why do you think
that the Western world is
so deficient in iodine?
Why such a rampant increase
of thyroid disease?
Uh-oh.
I've unleashed the cowboy.
>> TOLMAN: (SOUTHERN ACCENT)
I'll try to hold back a little
bit, m'kay, little lady?
(NORMAL VOICE) But here it is.
When someone feels tired,
they feel fatigued,
they feel a mental fog, they
might even feel a little dizzy,
those are symptoms of
over 1,000 diseases
that people have
those same symptoms.
So people run to
the doctor and want
to be tested and given an
answer as to what it is.
And the money-making is
so behind all of this,
and it's so easy for the
CEOs of the companies that
make drugs to
target the thyroid.
Their job is to market and
sell and to get that out there.
That's their job.
It's their company.
That's their business.
And so if you want to
have a thyroid problem,
just go be tested.
You'll be hyper or hypo
or they'll find something
else wrong to get you on drugs.
That's their business.
But the thing about
these mushrooms
is that when you look
at them and you get rid
of that little stem and
open the thing up and see
those structures
in there, and then
you can get "Grey's Anatomy"
and start looking at the tissue
structures of the
thyroid, that was
the pattern of the thyroid in
the ancient healers' minds.
And it's so interesting.
We have had people on drugs
for thyroidism, hyper and hypo.
They get rid of the medicine.
They stop.
They start eating those.
90 days later, they go back
to the doctor to be tested.
And I've asked them,
if the doctor asks you
if you've been on your
medicine, just say
yes and see what happens.
And just be tested.
And they come back
and say, oh, man,
the medicine's really working.
Wow.
You're really good.
And so then they
come back and smile
and stay with their mushrooms.
We have had six people have
their thyroid surgically
removed after being on thyroid
medication five to seven years.
And they stop the medication.
They're told they've got to be
on it the rest of their lives.
They stop.
They eat one cup of mushrooms,
cooked, steamed, sauteed.
>> LISA: Doesn't matter.
>> TOLMAN: Every one of them
have had their thyroids grow
back in 9 to 15 months,
and it's fully functional.
>> LISA: Oh my goodness.
And how many of these
do you eat a day?
>> TOLMAN: One cup full.
>> LISA: One cup full.
And it doesn't matter if they're
cooked, sauteed, whatever.
>> TOLMAN: No.
It's one of the foods
that it's OK to steam.
It will not create chaos.
>> LISA: It won't create
chaos in the food.
OK.
Endocrine system.
The beautiful avocado.
I love avocados.
They are a gorgeous food.
Why are they great for
the endocrine system?
>> TOLMAN: It's interesting,
because the similarities,
the law of similarities
or doctrine of signatures,
the sign of natures-- and I've
been barking this for 40 years.
I felt like a lone
wolf for a long time.
It's so good to see other
people getting into it,
and I love the
fact that you are.
The avocado, they
believed, looked
like the womb and the
cervix of the female.
And it has one
swollen seed, just
like a woman who is pregnant.
And so they had women,
especially in ancient Greece,
eat three of those a week
throughout the pregnancy.
They've tested this today in
two different medical clinics.
They know that if a woman
will eat two or three avocados
a week during pregnancy
and even after she'll
shed the unwanted
weight gain fast.
>> LISA: Interesting.
>> TOLMAN: And they know that it
also somehow helps overcome any
complications in delivery.
>> LISA: Really?
>> TOLMAN: Uh-huh.
It can actually help
to prevent and even
help to clear cervical cancers.
It has the good fats.
It has so many things in it.
And it takes nine months to
grow an avocado from blossom
to ripened fruit.
>> LISA: Oh my goodness.
Nine months.
>> TOLMAN: Who
made this stuff up?
Nine months.
>> LISA: Perfect.
>> TOLMAN: Yeah.
>> LISA: What about
our friend the kiwi?
Why is the kiwi good
for an endocrine system?
>> TOLMAN: It's interesting,
because this particular fruit
here they believed really
targeted the male testicles
and even the motility of
the sperm and even volume
of the sperm.
And it's really
fascinating, because there
are some studies
now that shows it's
good for different
things in the body.
But it really does target
the testicular system.
>> LISA: Interesting.
And it's high in vitamin C.
>> TOLMAN: Awesome.
>> LISA: Is it high in
zinc or anything else?
Do we know?
>> TOLMAN: Well, here's the
thing that people I think need
to start to understand.
>> LISA: OK.
>> TOLMAN: Every food on
this earth has every known
nutritional
component, all of it.
It just has them in different
volumes of concentration.
It has it all.
This has iron.
And so people sit there and they
say, well, does it have zinc?
Does it have-- it's
got everything.
I have lived in cultures
where they actually
lived for months off one food.
>> LISA: Now I know you've
lived for months with no food.
>> TOLMAN: True.
You've gone on complete
fasts for 40 days at a time?
>> TOLMAN: Uh-huh.
I went 90 days on
watermelon juice five times.
I've gone 40 days on
nothing but water.
>> LISA: Five times
on watermelon juice.
>> TOLMAN: And you got
everything you needed?
>> TOLMAN: Yeah.
It's interesting, because
whenever you fast,
whether it's a juice
fast or a water fast,
the first three days
are the hardest.
It's harder than day 35 and 36.
But you get through that,
the metabolic process
of just dumping and clearing
and not habituated force feeding
your face and all that, and it's
just fascinating how you feel
mentally and emotionally,
physically, even
within your own personality.
>> LISA: Oh, yeah.
>> TOLMAN: And so your social
relationships, very thrilling.
>> LISA: There's a very, very
big mental aspect to cleansing
as well.
>> TOLMAN: There is.
>> LISA: You go through a lot
of cleansing of mental thoughts
and old thoughts that
don't work any longer.
And a lot of shadow
stuff comes up
as it's coming out and
purging itself as well.
>> TOLMAN: Sure.
>> LISA: Been through it.
It's fun.
All right.
Eliminatory system.
Tell me why these
wonderful foods
are great for the
eliminatory system.
Oh, by the way I
wanted to mention
we have a recipe for the
blood sugar balancing.
And this is really great.
This is going to come up
on your screen in a second.
It's a blood sugar balancer.
And all that's in it, let's
see, you've got pure water,
small apple, nutritional
yeast, two tablespoons
of oats, wheat germ, sunflower
seeds, and orange juice.
And that's great for
balancing blood sugar.
>> TOLMAN: It is.
>> LISA: And that's a
wonderful combination.
Why that combination of foods?
>> TOLMAN: It's interesting,
because if you really dig
into the measures of the
glycemic index and everything
that's going on, people need to
slow down a little bit and not
be afraid.
And this particular
set of foods actually
target all of the
systems that direct right
to the pancreatic function.
And that pancreas will begin
to produce more glucagon, which
gives you your energy back,
drops the glycemic index,
and just restores function.
And we could go off
for an hour on that.
But just keeping it
cut to the chase,
people can test
this for themselves.
And that's what I like.
>> LISA: Yes.
>> TOLMAN: Test it yourself,
find the result that you get,
and there you have it.
>> LISA: And so the oats and
the nutritional yeast help kind
of balance out the sugars in
the fruits and creates that same
type of balance in the body?
>> TOLMAN: It does.
And it helps to clear out toxic
residues of refined sugars,
synthetic sweeteners, like
aspartame and things like that.
It goes and clears that
and then restores function.
>> LISA: And then also has a
certain amount of protein in it
that'll help balance
the blood sugar as well.
>> TOLMAN: Yep.
>> LISA: OK.
I learned that from your book.
>> TOLMAN: Awesome.
I love it.
>> LISA: All right.
Going to the eliminatory system,
cucumber, high water content,
right?
Tell me why this is good
for the eliminatory.
>> TOLMAN: You probably
have heard the phrase cool
as a cucumber.
>> LISA: Yes.
>> TOLMAN: That food helps
to cleanse and to clean out
the eliminatory system, which
restores the neuroendocrine
function, immunity.
And what it does is that
it takes out they heat
process the body has to
create to stay on top
of any kind of inflammation,
infection, bacterial overwhelm.
That's what fevers do.
Fevers are there to heal
you, not to kill you.
They're there to heal.
And so if you feel like
you're getting too hot
or you're having these flushes
of just heat and everything,
that there is going to
clear everything out
that the body is trying
to protect you from.
That clears it, and so
the temperature drops.
>> LISA: It's also great to
put little circles underneath
your eyes.
>> TOLMAN: True.
And I got to start doing that.
>> LISA: Why is that?
OK.
Black pepper.
I didn't know black pepper was
great for eliminatory systems.
>> TOLMAN: It is.
>> LISA: Why is that?
>> TOLMAN: If you'll
use black pepper--
don't put it into foods
that you're cooking.
Wait till the cooking is done.
Then put it on.
>> LISA: OK.
>> TOLMAN: Because if you do, it
does deactivate the stimulation
of the peristaltic
action of the intestines.
It speeds up that action
of the intestines.
>> LISA: Oh, it does?
>> TOLMAN: It does.
>> LISA: Finely ground.
This is, of course,
the peppercorns.
>> TOLMAN: Yeah.
>> LISA: So more finely ground?
>> LISA: And it
stimulates peristalsis.
>> TOLMAN: It does.
>> LISA: I did not know that.
>> TOLMAN: Yeah.
>> LISA: All right.
What about flaxseed?
This is another great one
for the eliminatory system.
>> TOLMAN: Yeah.
>> LISA: We have finely
ground flax here.
>> TOLMAN: The fibers and
the oils in the flaxseed goes
through, and it'll get
stuck on the mucosal lining
of the alimentary canal, the
entire intestinal system,
and it will swell up
as it absorbs liquids.
And so it'll help slough
off the mucosal lining
and get it out of the body.
The intestinal mucosal
lining is supposed
to replace itself
every 3 to 5 days.
They know that the
average US citizen, it
replaces anywhere from
30 days to 4 months,
and that is not healthy.
That's why most disease
symptoms actually
start from the intestines
being blocked, clogged,
dry, the whole thing.
>> LISA: From the colon.
Of course, colon disease.
>> TOLMAN: And that's
what those things do.
>> LISA: Interesting.
This is great.
So it takes the toxins
out of the mucoid plaque
layer of the intestinal system.
>> TOLMAN: It does.
>> LISA: That's brilliant.
OK.
We also have here lentils,
wonderful lentils.
Why are these good
for eliminatory?
>> TOLMAN: It's so fascinating,
because the lentils themselves
have a concentration
on a type of protein.
And of course, there's
200,000 identifiable proteins,
and they break them out
into groupings from hormones
to enzymes, and it just
goes down the list.
This particular
seed has a protein
that strengthens the
actual colonic wall.
>> LISA: Oh, it does?
>> TOLMAN: It does.
And the small intestines.
It strengthens the actual
interstitial muscular tissue
of that.
And so because that
is strengthened,
it doesn't develop bursts
or balloons or polyps
or other things, and it
keeps it healthy and strong.
And so that is a
good food to have.
>> LISA: So the proteins
in the lentils do this.
>> TOLMAN: They do.
>> LISA: Interesting.
All right.
And then there's
also the kidney that
is associated with the
eliminatory system.
We actually have a slide
here of the kidney.
Why do kidney beans
look like kidneys?
Why do they call
them kidney beans?
>> TOLMAN: Exactly.
>> LISA: Because they
look like kidneys.
Exactly.
>> TOLMAN: And it's
so interesting,
any bean or legume or even
some of the lentil groupings,
anything that looks
like the kidneys,
they're going to target
that kidney function.
And we've had so many people
restore their kidney function
just by having a
crock pot and filling
it, slow, slow, slow
cooking, and throwing
in a little garlic and onion and
having a bowl of that each day.
>> LISA: Then
putting it in water?
>> TOLMAN: And then it goes.
>> LISA: You're kidding.
>> TOLMAN: Yeah.
Just putting the water
in, slow cooking it.
You can sprout them and eat
them, if you're up to that.
But the ancient wisdom shows
that's not actually necessary.
>> LISA: What about the idea
that beans could cause gas
in certain systems and so forth?
Is that something that
you've been asked before?
Yes.
>> TOLMAN: The healthiest,
healthiest people create more
gas than others.
Cows, very healthy, they create
a lot of gas, and, of course,
global warming.
And I think that's
total nonsense.
But believe whatever
you want to believe.
But that's why a
lot of vegetarians
actually have more
flatulence than meat-eaters.
And it's because those gases
is nitrogen gas and then
converting into methane
and other gases,
and it clears and keeps
the metabolic process
of the body healthy
and fully functional.
>> LISA: How?
>> TOLMAN: It's the breakdown
of the proteins and so the body
can actually use the proteins.
And it's just like
you pop your knuckles.
That's nitrogen
gas being released.
So it's just like
when chiropractors,
if they're not invasive and
know what they're doing,
it can be very, very
beneficial and healing.
And the popping sounds
is the gases escaping.
If they don't, they can calcify,
and now you've got problems.
And so the gases from beans and
lentils and things like that
is actually a very
healthy thing.
>> LISA: But can
be uncomfortable.
>> TOLMAN: Sure.
And if you get bloated
and blah, blah, blah, then
you need to eat the kinds of
foods and drink enough water
and go walking for an
hour, and so everything
is functioning properly.
>> LISA: Can move.
Interesting.
Now there's a great
recipe that you
have here for a
kidney stone cleanse.
And people that have
had kidney stones
and been through the pain of the
process of the stones passing
would love to see this recipe.
Now what do you recommend doing?
We've got a quart of tomato
juice, a quart of sauerkraut,
and 12 drops of peppermint oil.
>> TOLMAN: Yeah.
And when it's the sauerkraut,
it's just the liquid.
>> LISA: OK.
>> TOLMAN: You strain the
sauerkraut off the cabbage,
and you just have the liquid,
and then you put in the drops
of the peppermint.
>> LISA: Peppermint oil.
And you drink this?
>> TOLMAN: You shake it all
up, and you drink it one to two
hours before you go to bed.
Don't move around once
you've drunk that.
You need to calm down, lay
down, and then go to bed.
And the next morning you will
pass those kidney stones.
And we've had hundreds and
hundreds of people do this.
>> LISA: But they break
the stones up to a finer--
>> TOLMAN: It breaks them up.
Also, it'll help to get rid of
the pain as it's coming out.
>> LISA: Because they're more
of a fine ground-up type.
They're not big stones
that are being passed.
>> TOLMAN: Right.
>> LISA: Does it have something
to do with the cultured enzymes
in the sauerkraut?
>> TOLMAN: I think it's that
as well as the salt brine
absorbing all of that
intestinal component.
>> LISA: Interesting.
And then the cleansing of the
tomato and the peppermint oil,
you also mentioned, has a
wicking type of element to it.
Peppermint oil as well?
>> TOLMAN: Yeah, it does.
>> LISA: Fascinating.
>> TOLMAN: Boy, you
know your stuff.
[LAUGHS] I love it.
>> LISA: I read your book.
>> TOLMAN: Yeah.
I love that.
I do.
>> LISA: You just said it--
>> TOLMAN: That's so awesome.
>> LISA: --so I'm listening.
>> TOLMAN: Yeah.
>> LISA: I'm just
a good listener.
All right.
So lymphatic system.
I had so much fun putting
all this together.
So immune and lymphatic system.
We've got the tangerine.
Why is that good for
the immune system?
I might kind of figure it out.
But they're good in winter.
They grow in winter.
>> TOLMAN: Yeah.
It's so interesting,
because every food anciently
had either a feminine
or a masculine signature
or both to the ancient healers.
And they believed
that each of us
is created both male
and female, that we
have feminine qualities, we
have masculine qualities.
And so the citrus they
believed was feminine.
>> LISA: Oh, OK.
Got it.
>> TOLMAN: Are you staying
abreast of what I'm talking
about?
>> LISA: Yes.
Thank you for sharing.
>> TOLMAN: And it's interesting,
if you cut this and look at it,
the cells of this thing look
like the cells of the mammary
glands in the breast.
>> LISA: Huh.
>> TOLMAN: And then you go even
into other structures and you
find, oh my gosh, the
neuroimmune system is
a replication of the brain cells
that float throughout the body
and send signals back to the
brain of the condition all
through the body.
>> LISA: Like sonar.
>> TOLMAN: Yeah, exactly.
Totally.
And so the cells in
all of the citrus
target the neuroimmune system
and the lymphatic clearing,
which is what keeps
you healthy and going.
So any toxicities
it helps to clear.
And the nutritional
components of these
actually help to
overcome deficiencies
within that system.
>> LISA: And then also with the
green onions and the garlic?
>> TOLMAN: Yes.
>> LISA: I know garlic's a
great antifungal, antibacterial.
>>TOLMAN: You nailed it.
And same here.
>> LISA: Same with
the green onions?
>> TOLMAN: Absolutely.
In fact, we've had people
with nasal blockage and lung
congestion.
And you can cut these onions
and just slightly put it up
into your nostril and--
[INHALES STRONGLY]
>> LISA: Oh, really?
>> TOLMAN: And then--
[EXHALES STRONGLY] You know?
And go back and forth.
And it's so fascinating
how it helps
to clear and to
heal all of that.
>> LISA: I also understand that
if you plant green onions next
to lettuce that it will work
as a natural pesticide and keep
certain bugs away from--
>> TOLMAN: 100%.
>> LISA: --eating your lettuce.
Really good to know.
>> TOLMAN: It is so cool.
>> LISA: All right.
There's a great recipe
that you put together
for this as well for
a lymphatic cleanse.
We've got it on the
screen here for you.
It's "The Hulk," orange juice,
pecans, wheatgrass juice,
sesame seeds, flaxseed
oil, and berries.
>> TOLMAN: Yes.
>> LISA: What an
incredible combination.
>> TOLMAN: I love
that combination,
and especially the berries.
Most people don't even know what
the Latin word for berry is.
It's vaccinium.
That's what berry came from
in the Latin, vaccinium.
And the poison-makers
took that word
and called it vaccine
and vaccinate.
The original vaccines,
the protector inhibitors
of the cultures, were berries.
If you want to vaccinate
yourself from everything,
eat berries when
they're in season.
Just pig out on them.
>> LISA: Blueberries,
raspberries, strawberries,
whenever they're in season.
>> TOLMAN: All of them.
They are nature's vaccines.
>> LISA: And they've got a
bunch of antioxidants as well.
That has been discovered,
of course, since.
All right.
So another great system,
which is the muscular system.
Spinach, Popeye's food, back
to our wonderful spinach.
>> TOLMAN: Exactly.
>> LISA: Many of these foods
cross over into many different
systems.
I noticed that apples were a
part of every single system.
>> TOLMAN: Everything.
It's good for it all.
>> LISA: Which you
mentioned earlier.
So my question was, how do
you get protein in your diet?
Is there protein in spinach?
>> TOLMAN: I think so.
And in fact--
[BOTH LAUGHING]
>> TOLMAN: No, that's what's so
fascinating is that every plant
on the face of this Earth and
even these plant foods have all
200,000 identifiable proteins.
In fact, grass, just wild
grass, has all of the proteins.
And that's why horses and
cows and oxen and buffaloes
and elephants, where do
they get their protein?
All they eat is grass
and drink water.
>> LISA: Right.
Right.
>> TOLMAN: They get it all.
It's all there.
>> LISA: There's
protein in grass?
>> TOLMAN: Everything.
Totally.
There's probably a
greater concentration
of muscle-building protein in
grass than any other plant.
And there's a lot of
bodybuilders today
that are just discovering
that and really getting
into the grasses.
>> LISA: Popeye
sure had it down.
>> TOLMAN: Spinach is one of
the best. [MAKES WHISTLE SOUND]
>> LISA: That was
one of his things.
>> TOLMAN: Smart man.
>> LISA: Sprouts are also great.
Look at these beautiful sprouts.
They have a
concentration of protein.
>> TOLMAN: Absolutely.
>> LISA: They do?
>> TOLMAN: High, high, high end.
>> LISA: And they smell
kind of like grass.
>> TOLMAN: Yeah.
>> LISA: I love the
smell of sprouts.
>> TOLMAN: And the sprouts
are so fascinating,
because they're already so
activated it's almost like
an instant hit.
>> LISA: So this is
basically growing.
A lot of things you
can sprout, beans.
You can sprout nuts.
You can sprout them.
And when you sprout
them, what does
the sprouting process
actually do when you sprout
these different types of things?
>> TOLMAN: It actually activates
an assimilation of frequencies
of light, especially
chlorophyll,
and that's a wonderful protein
and iron and blah, blah, blah,
blah.
We cold go on and on.
But everything is in
such an active frequency
that the cells identify it
immediately and can use it
right now.
>> LISA: And the same with oats.
We have oats and
eggs in here as well.
And so we could dress
up the little egg here.
We could make it--
[BOTH LAUGHING]
>> TOLMAN: That is cute.
She's such a cute egg.
>> LISA: But this is a great
combination of protein, right?
>> TOLMAN: Yeah, I like it.
I like it.
I do.
>> LISA: You like our
little friend here.
We'll just put her in the oats.
>> TOLMAN: And it's
so interesting,
because they've
studied eggs now,
and they realized that eggs
actually target the bloodstream
in a way that it doesn't
allow for blood clotting.
>> LISA: Really?
>> TOLMAN: And so it can
help to avoid blood clotting.
It helps to avoid
strokes, things like that.
I know a lot of people get
angry about eating eggs.
They think it's
killing a chicken.
But you're not.
You could set this
out on the grass
and just try to sneak up on it.
It won't run, and it
won't even fly away.
>> LISA: So it's not a chicken
yet is what you're saying.
>> TOLMAN: I've even had people
say to me that you're killing
and eating a chicken.
And it's not true.
>> LISA: It's not a chicken yet.
>> TOLMAN: There's cultures
right here in the United
States-- I've been
amongst them--
they believe that if a
young girl has a period,
she killed a baby, and that's
why you should get little girls
pregnant before they
even start their period.
And they throw
that onto eggs too.
>> LISA: But it's
a future chicken.
>> TOLMAN: Yeah.
>> LISA: Only if
it's fertilized.
>> TOLMAN: It's not.
>> LISA: OK.
>> TOLMAN: Yeah.
>> LISA: All right.
So now the last one
is the skeletal system
that we're going to cover here.
And this we have the jicama.
Why is that great for--
it looks like a bone.
>> TOLMAN: It really does.
>> LISA: It could look like a
bone inside of a jicama, yeah.
And this is such a good food.
>> TOLMAN: It is.
And it has, just like celery,
that looks like a bone,
snaps like a bone, these foods
have 21% photolytic or plant
sodium.
And it's the sodium
in plants and even
in good nature-made salt
that ionizes in the body
into calcium.
Your body makes calcium
for your bones from salt.
>> LISA: So what about
calcification in the bones that
causes arthritis and
Parkinson's and so forth?
Could this help decalcify with
the right type of calcium?
>> TOLMAN: It's done it
for hundreds and hundreds
of people.
>> LISA: Really?
>> TOLMAN: And most people with
any kind of joint problems,
bone problems, arthritis,
they don't have enough salt
in their diet.
They've been put
on low-salt diets,
or they think that
salt is dangerous.
>> LISA: The wrong kind of salt.
Right.
>> TOLMAN: Yeah.
Industrialized salt,
commercial salt, don't eat it.
>> LISA: Tell me why really
quickly, because I know--
>> TOLMAN: They add anti-caking
agents that can be aluminum,
hexachromium, titanium powders.
And then, if they throw
all of that in pancake mix
or white flour breads, it
even has ground up asbestos.
>> LISA: Would do
see aluminum powder--
>> TOLMAN: Melamine.
>> LISA: Aluminum powder
is truly the heavy metal
of aluminum ground up, so it--
>> TOLMAN: It is.
>> LISA: --creates
an anti-caking.
>> TOLMAN: And they
throw it into salt.
You go into a restaurant,
most of them have--
>> LISA: It's in ingredients.
>> TOLMAN: --the
commercial salt.
It's right in there.
>> LISA: Well, one cool thing
is you're not going to find
aluminum powder in these
things, which are--
we have a combination here of
pistachios and pumpkin seeds.
That's what I have in my hand.
So these are great for
the skeletal system.
>> TOLMAN: They are.
>> LISA: I'm not a
hand model, by the way.
I'm just trying today.
>> TOLMAN: Yes, you are.
>> TOLMAN: No, it's
really interesting,
because that combination
of nutritional components,
it's been studied
even in today's world.
And they just simply confirm
what the ancient healers
had tested and known.
And they're absolutely
good for the bones.
And the pumpkin seed itself, if
anyone has parasites anywhere
in their body, they can't stand
the nutritional components
of a pumpkin seed.
And so it helps to clear that.
And when you do that,
it actually activates
the electrolyte of the
sodium near the bone
and strengthens bones
in the same process.
It's quite a complex
thing, apparently.
>> LISA: What's in the pumpkin
seed that doesn't allow that?
>> TOLMAN: I wish that I knew
the actual made-up 17th century
Latin names of those
nutritional components--
>> LISA: Sorry.
>> TOLMAN: --but
I try to avoid it.
I do know a lot of that.
>> LISA: We'll be here all day.
>> TOLMAN: And when I lecture
at medical symposiums,
I get into all of that.
>> LISA: You make sure you do.
>> TOLMAN: But when we're
talking to people about
the truth, nature's complex
so that we don't have to be.
>> LISA: Well, it makes it
really simple, actually.
And there's a great
thing, by the way,
this is an arthritis pack
that you put together.
You can actually make
a poultice of this.
We have the recipe for you.
It's 10 crushed garlic cloves,
three crushed hot peppers,
two teaspoons of
olive oil, clove oil.
You mix and soak all
of this together,
and you massage it
into the muscles,
and it actually
helps break up plaque
from the out-- which
is a great idea,
because the skin
itself is an organ.
>> TOLMAN: It is.
>> LISA: And so all of this
will absorb right into the skin.
>> TOLMAN: It will.
And it'll go right
through the interstitials,
right to the site of where
the pain and everything is.
It'll just go right to it.
It's really fascinating.
>> LISA: So you can put
that on your knees--
>> TOLMAN: Yes.
>> LISA: --joints.
It'll get right into the joints.
>> TOLMAN: Absolutely.
>> LISA: And you've seen
this work on people.
>> TOLMAN: I have.
I love it.
>> LISA: That is a great one.
All right.
Well, you have done an
incredible job of telling us
what works for what
organs in the body.
We forgot to mention our
beautiful olives, by the way.
Those are great for
the endocrine system.
I forgot about our olives.
But you mentioned to me that
there's only one disease.
There's only one cause
of disease out there.
What is that?
>> TOLMAN: Ancients taught
the wisdom there's only one
disease.
And you can check
on medical websites,
and they'll say there's
anywhere from 16,000
to 36,000 plus 17,000 rare ones.
There's one.
And I happen to agree
with it, and now
a lot of doctors and
researchers are coming to it.
The only dis-ease or
discomfort that exists
is chaos at the atomic level.
That chaos at the level
of atoms creates chaos
at the molecular level,
which creates chaos
at the cellular level.
And when enough cells are
in chaos, you feel it.
And that's a
symptom, which means
a sign or a signal of
a chaos in the body.
There's only two
causes, only two.
It's no mystery.
We don't have to keep
spending billions looking
for this blah, blah, blah.
There's only two causes of
disease in the body, toxicity
or deficiency.
And if you live in a
modern developed country,
you're probably
toxic and deficient.
>> LISA: Ah, both.
>> TOLMAN: It's probably both.
>> LISA: So these foods and more
will help restore the balance
and find order within the
chaos of the atomic level.
And it can actually physically
help repair the cells
in the body.
>> TOLMAN: Absolutely.
>> LISA: So this is a great
example of how food can truly
be our medicine.
>> TOLMAN: It's what it does.
>> LISA: You're awesome.
>> TOLMAN: You're awesome.
>> LISA: You're awesome,
Cowboy Don Tolman.
You have been terrific.
Thank you so much
for being here.
You're a fountain
of information.
>> TOLMAN: I love what you do.
>> LISA: Oh, you too.
>> TOLMAN: You're awesome.
>> LISA: I love what
you bring to us.
>> TOLMAN: Thank you.
>> LISA: Thank you so much.
And if you want to watch my
interview with Don Tolman
and share it with
your friends, you
can go to gaiamtv.com and
share it with your friends.
Great wisdom about
ancient cultures here.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.